## Why should we study OS?
- Technical perspective
OS is essential to understand how computers work under the hood
<br>
OS is a key technology of computer systems

- Business Perspective
OS creates and dominates the ecosystem
1. Lock-in
If an user gets used to specific OS, user will have problem getting used to another OS.
2. Chrun-in
When users are attracted to a particular os, developers create applications, hardware, and it introduces new users to create a virtuous cycle.

## What Makes It Difficult?
- System software that provides an execution environment for applications. System software between applications and hardware.
Different users have diverse views to OS. For example, App developers and Device manufacturers ahve different perspective and views. In this course, we can experience OS as a view of OS developers.
- OS have huge and complex structure. For example, Linux has 18 million lines of code and Windows XP has 45 million lines of codes. In case of Red Hat Linux version 7.1, it contains over 30 million lines and it is about 8000 man-years of development effort.
- Too many bugs. Steve McConnell said that "about 15-50 errors per 1000 lines of code" but there are more than 18 million lines of code in Linux
- Difficult to Develop and Own. Interfacing with hardware and application software. Which implies that highest form of SW in CS, expert developers are needed.

## Recent Trends
- Distributed and Cloud: OS for Big Computer Systems
- OS for small manycore processors
- OS for connected computing: IoT and Wearable Computing
- Next Generation Technology and Changes (ex. NVRAM, Autonomous Driving, AR/VR, Deep Learning, etc.)

Since OS is one of the most oldest studied areas in computer science, many people misunderstand that there is no room for further development. However, because the operating system acts as a midpoint between computer systems, software, and hardware systems, OS will continue to play a role as long as the computer exist, and evolution and change of operating systems are inevitable whenever new technologies come out.

## History of Computers and Operating System
First Computers
- Abacus can be the first computer in history. It moves with physical movements by hand and read by eyes. No programming and no special I/O devices and location of the stone can be referred as memory. which is very volatile and slow. 
- ENIAC (1946) is the first computer that uses electricity. It is very huge, heavy and slow (less than 5000 operations per second)

## The History of Computers and OS
It is hard to define and explain the notion of operatin system. Learning about the OS history will help you understand what it is and how it works.
<br>
There exist 3 phases of History.
<br>
### Phase 1. Mainframe computers
From 1960s to 1970s, as transistors are developed, input devices(card readers, magnetic tape, etc.) and output devices(display, line printers, etc.) are also developed.
At the time, computers were very expensive but humans were cheap. Human programmers and operators used to program, setup, monitor, and debug.
<br>
A __Resident Monitor__ can be considered a primitive precursor to the operating system. It governed the machine before and after each job control card was executed, loaded and interpreted each control card was executed, loaded and interpreted each control card, and acted as a job sequencer for batch processing operations. In other words, Resident Monitor seperated software from the hardware.

